## Data Warehouse on the AWS Cloud
### Purpose
Sparkify, a startup company with a music streaming app, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app. Sparkify would like to build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

## Datasets
#### Source
There are two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

1. **Song data**: s3://udacity-dend/song_data  (The song dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file in the song dataset is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song.)

2. **Log data**: s3://udacity-dend/log_data (The log dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above)Json path : s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json

#### Fact/Dim

1. **songplays** - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong

2. **users** - users in the app

3. **songs** - songs in music database

4. **artists** - artists in music database

5. **time** - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units


## ETL Pipeline

**create_tables.py** drops and creates the tables, which needs to be run before the ETL scripts to reset the tables.

**etl.py** loads the data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

**sql_queries.py** contains all the sql queries, and is imported into the two files above.

**README.md** provides documentation on the project.

## How to Run pipeline.
1. create_tables.py  as $ python create_tables.py
2. etl.py as $ python etl.py