## Data Lake with Spark
### The Purpose of Building an ETL Pipeline for the Data Lake Hosted on S3
Sparkify, a startup company with a music streaming app, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app. Sparkify would like to build aan ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

### Datasets
There are two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data

Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

1. Song Dataset
The song dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file in the song dataset is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

2. Log Dataset
The log dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.


### Schema for Song Play Analysis
#### Fact Table
1. songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

#### Dimension Tables
1. users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

2. songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

3. artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

4. time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

### ETL Pipeline
1. Load AWS credentials (dl.cfg)
2. Read Sparkify data from S3
* song_data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
* log_data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
3. Process the data using Apache Spark.
4. Transform the data and create five tables (see 'Tables' above)
5. Load data back into S3

###  How to Run pipeline.

1. Update 'dl.cfg' file with your AWS credentials

2. Run $ python etl.py